Turris OS Updater's lists
=========================

These are Lua scripts for updater-ng. They are server side configuration for
Turris OS updating process. Updater downloads these scripts and runs them to get
rules for update it does.

Lists are either Lua files with `.lua` extension or m4 macro files generating Lua
script with `.lua.m4` extension. Script `generate_lists` just copies plain Lua
files and runs m4 for `*.lua.m4` files. Any other file is ignored.

This repository is used by
https://gitlab.labs.nic.cz/turris/turris-build[turris-build].

Workflow of this repository is consistent with workflow of
https://gitlab.labs.nic.cz/turris/turris-os-packages[turris-os-packages].


List categories
---------------

There are different lists used for different use cases. This section serves and
general overview of available lists.

Top level list
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Top level lists are accessed by default and define default installation targets.
The general use case for them is default installation and rules that are always
included.

There are files with _base_ prefix, those are used as top level files. Additional
groups of rules (such as for Foris or Luci) are in separate lists and accessed
from _base_ one.

Package lists
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These are lists of packages optionally included in installation. This inclusion is
controlled by end device and package __pkglists__.

Contracts
~~~~~~~~~

These are lits maintained for routers with contract. Such router is configured to
always ask for its specific contract file.


m4 macros
---------

As lists can be generated using m4 macro language there are also some commonly
used macros defined in various files. You can understand them as m4 libraries. In
reality m4 is instructed to look for files in this directory. You can for example
use `include(utils.m4)dnl` to include `utils.m4` file in this directory.

Next subsections describe various macros defined in various files

utils.m4
~~~~~~~~

This file is expected to be included to pretty much every file that is not pure
Lua. It contains core definitions you probably want to use.

`file2args(FILE)`:: Transforms lines in file to comma separated list of arguments. You
  have to provide path to file. Usage: `file2args(`kmod.common')`

`foreach(X,TEXT(X),...)`:: Evaluates second argument with first argument as macro
  definition with macro of value of all additional arguments. Usage:
  `foreach(X,`kmod-X',foo,fee)`

`foeach_join(X,TEXT(X),Y,...)`:: This serves same purpose as
  `foreach(X,TEXT(X),...)`. The difference is that there is one additional
  argument `Y` that is used to join generated text. Usage:
  `foreach(X,`kmod-X',`\,',foo,fee)`

`forInstall(BASE,...)`:: Generate Install requests for common base and various expansions.
  The use case is to simplify writing of some requests where base of package name
  repeats. Usage: `forInstall(`kmod-',`foo',`fee')`

`forInstallCritical(BASE,...)`:: This same as `forInstall(BASE,...)` but it makes
  critical packages requests instead of regular ones.

`_FEATURE_GUARD_`:: Use this to guard more complicated sections of scripts. They
  are intended as a way to just have guard for all new features but still have
  valid scripts that allow system to update updater to new version and that way
  process guarded sections as well.

`_END_FEATURE_GUARD_`:: End of `_FEATURE_GUARD_`. Always pair these together.

This file also includes one pure Lua function `list_script`. It is intended for
generic relative list inclusion. The reason for its existence is that updater
might not support relative URIs and in such case it just uses HBS to build URI.

This also includes check for updater version. Only updater newer than version
60.0.1 is allowed.

The last thing it provides is exact identifier for board. That is stored in
variable `board` and can have one of three values:
* `mox`
* `omnia`
* `turris1x`
